The Desk Ruby Gem
====================
A Ruby wrapper for the [Desk.com API](http://dev.desk.com/)

Installation
------------
    gem install desk

What's new in 1.0.0?
--------------------

Completely rewritten for Desk.com API v2

For those upgrading from API v2 (Desk gem v0.3.x), check out the [transition
guide](TRANSITION.mkd)

Help! I'm getting: "Did not recognize your engine specification. Please specify either a symbol or a class. (RuntimeError)"
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You'll need to explicitly require a JSON library.
We recommend [yajl-ruby](http://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby).

Overview
--------------

Desk.com's API v2 follows a standard structure for (almost) every endpoint (see
the last section of the examples for the irregularities). Each endpoint
impliments some, or all, of the following actions: list, search, show, create,
update and delete. Additionally, some endpoints impliment sub-endpoints that
utilize the same list of actions.

The endpoint actions, and sub-endpoint actions, are implimented as methods in
the following way:

    [action]_[endpoint] or [action]_[endpoint]_[sub-endpoint]

http://dev.desk.com/API/cases  
The cases endpoint is a great example. It impliments the list, search, show,
create and updated actions. It additionally impliments sub-endpoints for
messages, replies, notes and attachments related to cases.
See the above link for more information.

For the Case endpoint, the create action would look like:

    Desk.create_case(args)

For the Reply sub-endpoint under Cases, the update action would look like:

    Desk.update_case_reply(case_id, reply_id, args)

Take note, as reflected in the Desk.com API documentation, that the list and
search actions change the plurality of the endpoint or sub-endpoint. Such as:

    Desk.search_cases
    Desk.list_case_replies(case_id)

Aliases
-------------

For ease of use, the list and show endpoint and sub-endpoint methods have
aliases that drop the action. These translate as follows:

    list_[endpoint plural]                 => [endpoint plural]
    show_[endpoint]                        => [endpoint]

    list_[endpoint]_[sub-endpoint pluaral] => [endpoint]_[sub-endpoint plural]
    show_[endpoint]_[sub-endpoint]         => [endpoint]_[sub-endpoint]

For the Case endpoint and Reply sub-endpoint that would look like:

    Desk.cases
    Desk.case(case_id)
    Desk.case_replies(case_id)
    Desk.case_reply(case_id, reply_id)

Additionally, for endpoints that impliment the search action, the list and list
alias will intelligently use the correct API action for the provided arguments.
Meaning, all of the following are valid:

    Desk.cases
    Desk.cases(:page => 2)
    Desk.cases(:status => "new,open")
    Desk.cases(:status => "new,open", :page => 2, :per_page => 10)

Responses
--------------

While the raw API responses are available (see below), results are by default
translated into cleaner, more accessible Ruby objects, allowing the following:

    cases = Desk.cases
    cases.each do |c|
      puts c.priority
      puts c.status
    end

For actions like show, create and update the endpoint fields are accessible in
the object root, such as:

    c = Desk.case(case_id)
    puts c.priority
    puts c.status

Additionally, the new "\_links" in API v2 are easily accessible in this way as
well. Because each link (like self, first, next, etc) contain a fully formated
API callback, we're able to directly load the results of that link and return
the resulting object. This allows for clean, simple code like the following to
page though all the avaiable cases:

    cases = Desk.list_cases
    while cases
      cases.each do |c|
        # do something with each case
      end
      cases = cases.next
    end

Or to easily access a case's assigned user and assigned group:

    c = Desk.show_case(case_id)
    user_object = c.assigned_user
    group_object = c.assigned_group

Raw Responses
--------------

While almost all of the Desk.com API results are accessible, in some form, using
the simple object keys above the raw results are still avaiable via the "raw" key.
This allows for:

    c = Desk.show_case(case_id)
    puts c.raw["_links"]["self"]["class"]

Usage Examples
--------------
    require "rubygems"
    require "desk"

    # All methods require authentication. To get your Desk OAuth credentials,
    # register an app in the Desk.com admin for your account at http://your-domain.desk.com/admin
    Desk.configure do |config|
      config.support_email = "help@example.com"
      config.subdomain = YOUR_DESK_SUBDOMAIN
      config.consumer_key = YOUR_CONSUMER_KEY
      config.consumer_secret = YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET
      config.oauth_token = YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN
      config.oauth_token_secret = YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN_SECRET
    end

    ######
    # List examples
    ######

    # List cases
    Desk.cases

    # List customers
    Desk.customers

    # List site settings
    Desk.site_settings

    # List twitter users
    Desk.twitter_users

    # List article translations
    Desk.article_translations(1)

    # List case notes
    Desk.case_notes(12345)

    ######
    # Search examples
    ######

    # Search articles
    Desk.articles(:text => "happy", :topic_ids => "1,2,4")

    # Search cases
    Desk.cases(:since_id => 12345)

    # Search companies
    Desk.companies(:q => "acme")

    # Search customers
    Desk.customers(:last_name => "Smith", :custom_field => "IS 5416")

    ######
    # Show examples
    ######

    # Get a specific custom field
    Desk.custom_field(1)

    # Get a specific facebook user
    Desk.facebook_user(1234)

    # Get a specific case
    Desk.case(12345)

    # Get a specific twitter account
    Desk.twitter_account(2)

    ######
    # Create examples
    ######

    # Create a new phone case
    Desk.create_case(
      :type => "phone",
      :subject => "Creating a case via the API",
      :priority => 4,
      :status => "open",
      :labels => [ "Spam", "Ignore" ],
      :_links => {
        :customer => {
          :href => "/api/v2/customers/1",
          :class => "customer"
        },
        :assigned_user => {
          :href => "/api/v2/users/1",
          :class => "user"
        },
        :assigned_group => {
          :href => "/api/v2/groups/1",
          :class => "group"
        },
        :locked_by => {
          :href => "/api/v2/users/1",
          :class => "user"
        },
        :entered_by => {
          :href => "/api/v2/users/1",
          :class => "user"
        }
      },
      :message => {
        :direction => "out",
        :body => "Please assist me with this case",
      }
    )

    # Create a new label
    Desk.create_label(
      :name => "MyLabel",
      :description => "A Test Label",
      :types => [ "case", "macro" ],
      :color => "blue"
    )

    # Create a new topic
    Desk.create_topic(
      :name => "Social Media",
      :allow_questions => true,
      :in_support_center => true
    )

    ######
    # Update examples
    ######

    # Update a customer
    Desk.update_customer(123,
      :first_name => "Johnny",
      :emails => {
        { :type => "work", :value => "johnny@acme.com" },
        { :type => "other", :value => "johnny@other.com" }
      },
      :custom_fields => { :level => "super" }
    )

    # Update an integration URL
    Desk.update_integration_url(10, :enabled => false)

    # Update a macro
    Desk.update_macro(5, :name => "Macro 5")

    ######
    # Delete examples
    ######

    # Delete a case
    Desk.delete_case(12345)

    # Delete a label
    Desk.delete_label(2)

    # Delete a macro
    Desk.delete_macro(10)

    ######
    # Sub-endpoint examples
    ######

    # Get the original message for a specific case
    Desk.case_message(12345)

    # Get the cases for a specifc filter
    Desk.filter_cases(8)

    # Output all replies for a specific case
    Desk.case_replies(12345).each { |r| puts r.body }

    # Update the translation for a specific topic
    Desk.update_topic_translation(1, "ja", :name => "The Japanese Translation")

    # Delete a specifc attachment for a specific case
    Desk.delete_case_attachment(12345, 10)

    ######
    # _link helper examples
    ######

    # Output the original message and all replies using the _link helpers
    c = Desk.case(12345)
    puts c.message.body
    c.replies.each { |r| puts r.body }

    # Output all article subjects, who created them and who last updated them
    Desk.articles.each do |a|
      puts a.subject
      puts "Created at: #{a.created_at} by #{a.created_by.public_name}"
      puts "Updated at: #{a.updated_at} by #{a.updated_by.public_name}"
    end

    # For all customers who have been created since 01/01/2013, output the
    # original message for all cases for those customers
    Desk.customers(:since_created_at => 1385856000).each do |customer|
      customer.cases.each do |c|
        puts c.message.body
      end
    end

    ######
    # "non-standard" examples
    ######

    # Get a case url
    Desk.case_url(12345)

    # Get the history for a sepcific case
    Desk.case_history(12345)

    # Show insights meta data
    Desk.insights_meta

    # Create insights report
    Desk.create_insights_report(
      :resolution => "days",
      :min_date => "2013-12-01",
      :max_date => "2013-12-16",
      :dimension1_name => "*",
      :dimension1_values => "*",
      :dimension2_name => "*",
      :dimension2_values => "*"
    )

    # Show the daily system message
    Desk.system_message

Contributing
------------
In the spirit of [free software](http://www.fsf.org/licensing/essays/free-sw.html), **everyone** is encouraged to help improve this project.

Here are some ways *you* can contribute:

* by using alpha, beta, and prerelease versions
* by reporting bugs
* by suggesting new features
* by writing or editing documentation
* by writing specifications
* by writing code (**no patch is too small**: fix typos, add comments, clean up inconsistent whitespace)
* by refactoring code
* by closing [issues](http://github.com/zencoder/desk/issues)
* by reviewing patches

All contributors will be added to the [HISTORY](https://github.com/zencoder/desk/blob/master/HISTORY.mkd)
file and will receive the respect and gratitude of the community.

Submitting an Issue
-------------------
We use the [GitHub issue tracker](http://github.com/zencoder/desk/issues) to track bugs and
features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request, check to make sure it hasn't already
been submitted. You can indicate support for an existing issuse by voting it up. When submitting a
bug report, please include a [Gist](http://gist.github.com/) that includes a stack trace and any
details that may be necessary to reproduce the bug, including your gem version, Ruby version, and
operating system. Ideally, a bug report should include a pull request with failing specs.

Submitting a Pull Request
-------------------------
1. Fork the project.
2. Create a topic branch.
3. Implement your feature or bug fix.
4. Add documentation for your feature or bug fix.
5. Run <tt>bundle exec rake doc:yard</tt>. If your changes are not 100% documented, go back to step 4.
6. Add specs for your feature or bug fix.
7. Run <tt>bundle exec rake spec</tt>. If your changes are not 100% covered, go back to step 6.
8. Commit and push your changes.
9. Submit a pull request. Please do not include changes to the gemspec, version, or history file. (If you want to create your own version for some reason, please do so in a separate commit.)

Copyright
---------
Copyright (c) 2012 Chris Warren/[Zencoder](http://zencoder.com)
See [LICENSE](https://github.com/zencoder/desk/blob/master/LICENSE.mkd) for details.
